Add "using instrumentation libraries" for cpp (#4388)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/languages/cpp/library.md

accelerate your work. If you then instrument your app using OpenTelemetry, you
might want to avoid spending additional time to manually add traces, logs, and
metrics to the third-party libraries and frameworks you use.

Many libraries and frameworks already support OpenTelemetry or are supported
through OpenTelemetry
[instrumentation](/docs/concepts/instrumentation/libraries/), so that they can
generate telemetry you can export to an observability backend.

If you are instrumenting an app or service that use third-party libraries or
frameworks, follow these instructions to learn how to use natively instrumented
libraries and instrumentation libraries for your dependencies.

## Use natively instrumented libraries

If a library comes with OpenTelemetry support by default, you can get traces,
metrics, and logs emitted from that library by adding and setting up the
OpenTelemetry SDK with your app.

The library might require some additional configuration for the instrumentation.
See the documentation for that library to learn more.

If a library doesn't include OpenTelemetry support, you can use
[instrumentation libraries](/docs/specs/otel/glossary/#instrumentation-library)

> to generate telemetry data for a library or framework.

Reviewer: Would it be good to clarify here(?) that OpenTelemetry C++ doesn't support [automatic instrumentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/v1.33.0/specification/glossary.md#automatic-instrumentation) for scenarios where source code of the library is not available.

Reviewer 2: Yes 🙌  but let's do this in a follow up PR

metrics to the third-party libraries and frameworks you use.

Many libraries and frameworks already support OpenTelemetry or are supported
through OpenTelemetry
[instrumentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/instrumentation/libraries/),
so that they can generate telemetry you can export to an observability backend.

If you are instrumenting an app or service that use third-party libraries or
frameworks, follow these instructions to learn how to use natively instrumented
libraries and instrumentation libraries for your dependencies.

## Use natively instrumented libraries

If a library comes with OpenTelemetry support by default, you can get traces,
metrics, and logs emitted from that library by adding and setting up the
OpenTelemetry SDK with your app.

The library might require some additional configuration for the instrumentation.
See the documentation for that library to learn more.

If a library doesn't include OpenTelemetry support, you can use
[instrumentation libraries](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/glossary/#instrumentation-library)
to generate telemetry data for a library or framework.

> For example,
> [NGINX instrumentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation/nginx)
> adds OpenTelemetry distributed tracing support to NGINX.

Reviewer 2: The NGINX example is a complicated one, since there are 3 different modules, and it's also not an instrumentation library in that sense. I lean towards not including this section. Instead we could add a note/warning that we are looking for people implementing an instrumentation library.

```suggestion
```

Author: should i write note/warning and then commit?

Reviewer 2: We can have it as a follow up, as you like.

## Setup

To set up an instrumentation library see
[otel-cpp-contrib](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation)

## Available packages

A full list of instrumentation libraries available can be found in the

> [openTelemetry registry](https://opentelemetry.io/ecosystem/registry/?language=cpp&component=instrumentation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[OpenTelemetry registry](https://opentelemetry.io/ecosystem/registry/?language=cpp&component=instrumentation)
```

---
title: Using instrumentation libraries
linkTitle: Libraries
weight: 40
---

{{% docs/languages/libraries-intro "C++" %}}

## Using instrumentation libraries

When you develop an app, you might use third-party libraries and frameworks to accelerate your work. If you then 
instrument your app using OpenTelemetry, you might want to avoid spending additional time to manually add traces, 
logs, and metrics to the third-party libraries and frameworks you use.

Many libraries and frameworks already support OpenTelemetry or are supported through OpenTelemetry
[instrumentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/instrumentation/libraries/),

> so that they can generate telemetry you can export to an observability back end.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
so that they can generate telemetry you can export to an observability backend.
```

If you are instrumenting an app or service that use third-party libraries or frameworks, follow these instructions to 
learn how to use natively instrumented libraries and instrumentation libraries for your dependencies.

## Use natively instrumented libraries

If a library comes with OpenTelemetry support by default, you can get traces, metrics, and logs emitted from that 
library by adding and setting up the OpenTelemetry SDK with your app.

> The library might require some additional configuration for the instrumentation. Go to the documentation for that 
> library to learn more.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The library might require some additional configuration for the instrumentation. See the documentation for that 
library to learn more.
```

> 
> ## Use instrumentation libraries
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

If a library doesn't include OpenTelemetry support, you can use
[instrumentation libraries](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/glossary/#instrumentation-library)
to generate telemetry data for a library or framework.

For example,

> [NGINX instrumentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation/nginx)
> Adds OpenTelemetry distributed tracing support to nginx.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[NGINX instrumentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation/nginx)
adds OpenTelemetry distributed tracing support to NGINX.
```

> ## setup

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

> For setup of instrumentation library check [otel-cpp-contrib](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To set up an instrumentation library see [otel-cpp-contrib](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation)
```
